Article 36: LAWS OF THE GAME
36.1 All matches shall be played in accordance with the Laws of the Game in force
at the time of the FIFA World Cup 26 and as laid down by The International
Football Association Board (“The IFAB”). In the case of any discrepancy in the
interpretation of the translations of the Laws of the Game, the English version
shall be authoritative.
36.2 During the match, each team:
a) may use a maximum of five substitutes;
b) has a maximum of three substitution opportunities. Where both teams
make a substitution at the same time, this will count as a used substitution
opportunity for each team; and:
c) may make substitutions at half‑time, which will not count as a substitution
opportunity.
36.3 In accordance with Law 3 of the Laws of the Game, teams may make one
additional permanent concussion substitution per match. The additional
permanent concussion substitution may be made regardless of the number of
substitutions already made. The opposing team will then receive an additional
regular substitution.
36.4 Where extra time is played:
If a team has not used the maximum number of substitutes and/or substitution
opportunities, any unused substitutes and substitution opportunities may be
used. In addition, each team:
a) may use an additional substitute (whether or not the team has used its
maximum number of substitutes);
b) has one additional substitution opportunity (whether or not the team has
used its maximum number of substitution opportunities). Where both teams
make a substitution at the same time, this will count as a used substitution
opportunity for each team; and
c) may make substitutions:
i. in the period before the start of extra time, which will not count as a
substitution opportunity; and
ii. at half‑time in extra time, which will not count as a substitution opportunity.
Refereeing
IX.
56 57
36.5 Players are entitled to a 15‑minute interval at half‑time; a short drinks break
(which should not exceed one minute) is permitted at the interval of half‑time in
extra time. If a match goes into extra time, a break not exceeding five minutes
is permitted before the first period of extra time begins.
36.6 Extreme weather conditions may warrant cooling breaks to be implemented
during the course of a match in accordance with the protocols established by
the FIFA Medical Committee and/or documented in the FIFA Football Emergency
Medicine Manual. Such breaks will be considered on a match‑by‑match basis.
Responsibility for implementing and controlling cooling breaks resides with
the referee.
36.7 Goal‑line technology may be used for the purpose of verifying whether a goal
has been scored to support the referee’s decision. The participating teams
shall consent, without reservation, to the use of said technology in the FIFA
World Cup 26, and unconditionally and irrevocably waive any and all rights
and interests they may have in connection with or as a result of the use of
goal‑line technology in matches of the FIFA World Cup 26.
36.8 Video assistant referee (VAR) systems and other forms of technology for
reviewing match‑changing decisions/incidents (e.g. semi‑automated offside
technology) may be used for reviewing match‑changing decisions/incidents
as per the protocol established by The IFAB.
36.9 Each match shall last 90 minutes, comprising two periods of 45 minutes

Article 29: NUMBERS AND NAMES
29.1 Only the numbers 1 to 26 may be allocated to the players, with number 1
being reserved exclusively for one of the goalkeepers. These numbers shall be
displayed at chest height on the front of the shirt, on the front of the shorts
and on the back of the shirts according to the FIFA Equipment Regulations. The
numbers shall correspond to the numbers indicated on the final release list.
29.2 During the final competition, for any goalkeeper replacement, the incoming
goalkeeper shall be assigned the next possible shirt number not being used
yet, e.g. 27.
29.3 The player’s last name or popular (or abbreviation) name shall be affixed above
the number on the back of the shirt and shall be clearly legible in accordance
with the FIFA Equipment Regulations. The name on the shirt shall bear a strong
resemblance to the player’s popular name as indicated on the final release
list and in any other official FIFA documentation. In the event of two or more
players having the same name on the back of the shirt, further letter(s) or
initial(s) shall be added until a clear distinction can be made between the players
concerned. In case of doubt, FIFA shall have the final decision regarding the
name that appears on the shirt.
29.4 Each team shall supply a set of goalkeeper shirts without names or numbers
for the FIFA World Cup 26. These shirts will only be used in those special
circumstances in which an outfield player must take the position of goalkeeper
during a match. This extra set of goalkeeper shirts shall be provided in the
same three colours as the regular goalkeeper shirts.
Article 30: MATCH COLOURS DESIGNATION
30.1 No later than one month before the start of the final competition, FIFA will
inform the teams of the colours that they shall wear for each match of the
group stage. As far as is possible, FIFA’s preference is for each team to wear
its first‑choice colours as declared on the team colour form. If the two teams’
colours and the match officials’ colour might cause confusion, the following
principles shall be applied by FIFA to allocate the match colours:
a) Order of priority from 1 to 5:
1. Team A playing kit
2. Team B playing kit
3. Team A goalkeeper kit
4. Team B goalkeeper kit
5. Match officials’ (referees’) kit
If the above order of priority does not produce a clear colour contrast of the
kits (having considered the respective first‑choice playing kit and alternative
playing kit colour options), the allocation shall continue step by step in reverse
order (team B colours first, followed by team A colours and/or reversal of
team A and team B assignment, if necessary) until an acceptable colour
contrast is confirmed.
b) If necessary, one or both teams may have to wear a combination of their
first‑choice and alternative playing or goalkeeper kits, or each team may
have to play in its alternative colours, irrespective of its team A or team B
status. FIFA will endeavour to ensure that each team wears its first‑choice
team playing kit at least once during the group stage. In principle, FIFA shall
also consider the option of dark‑kit and light‑kit colour‑contrast assignments
in the interests of accommodating individuals with a colour vision deficiency
whenever reasonably practicable.
30.2 FIFA shall confirm the playing colours to the Participating Member Associations
before the start of each match. The colours shall be reviewed during the Match
Coordination Meeting by the FIFA Match Director. The colours assignment
decided by FIFA is final.
30.3 The first‑choice and alternative team playing kits and all goalkeeper kits
(including the goalkeeper shirts without names and numbers) shall be taken
to every match.
48

Article 13: EQUAL POINTS AND QUALIFICATION FOR
KNOCKOUT STAGES
If two or more teams in the same group are equal on points after the completion
of the group stage, the following criteria, in the order below, shall be applied to
determine the ranking:
Step 1:
a) greatest number of points obtained in the group matches between the teams
concerned;
b) superior goal difference resulting from the group matches between the
teams concerned;
c) greatest number of goals scored in all group matches between the teams
concerned.
Step 2:
If, after having applied criteria a) to c) above, teams still have an equal ranking, and
in order to determine their final rankings, criteria a) to c) above are applied to the
matches between the remaining teams only. If no decision can be made through
this procedure, criteria d) to f) below shall apply as follows to the two or more teams
still equal on points:
d) superior goal difference in all group matches;
e) greatest number of goals scored in all group matches;
f) highest team conduct score (players and team officials) relating to the number
of yellow and red cards obtained:
- yellow card: minus 1 point
- indirect red card (as a result of two yellow cards): minus 3 points
- direct red card: minus 4 points
- yellow card and direct red card: minus 5 points
Only one of the above deductions shall be applied to a player or team official in a
single match. The team with the highest number of points shall be ranked highest.
With respect to the second step, all affected teams will be ranked by applying the
criteria d) to f) in order. If one team qualifies for a higher or lower ranking pursuant
to one criterion, but it is not possible to rank all teams on the basis of the same
criterion, the remaining two or three teams will be ranked pursuant to the next
criterion, and so on. In any case, the second step of the ranking does not restart
for the two or three teams remaining after application of a criterion.
Step 3:
If no decision can be made through the procedures of step 1 and 2, the following
shall apply:
g) the two or more teams still equal on points shall be ranked according to the
most recent published edition of the FIFA/Coca‑Cola Men’s World Ranking;
h) the two or more teams still equal on points shall be ranked according to the
published edition of the FIFA/Coca‑Cola Men’s World Ranking immediately
preceding the most recent published edition continually until a decision can
be made.
The eight best‑ranked teams among those finishing third (third‑placed teams
from 1 to 8)
The eight best teams among those ranked third will be determined as follows:
a) greatest number of points obtained in all group matches;
b) goal difference resulting from all group matches;
c) greatest number of goals scored in all group matches;
d) highest team conduct score (players and team officials) relating to the number
of yellow and red cards obtained in all group matches and calculated as per
article 13 paragraph 1, step 2;
e) the two or more teams still equal on points shall be ranked according to the
most recent published edition of the FIFA/Coca‑Cola Men’s World Ranking;
f) the two or more teams still equal on points shall be ranked according to the
published edition of the FIFA/Coca‑Cola Men’s World Ranking immediately
preceding the most recent published edition continually until a decision can
be made.
28
Article 14: EXTRA TIME AND PENALTIES (PENALTY
SHOOT‑OUT)
14.1 In the knockout stages, if a match is level at the end of normal playing time,
extra time shall be played. Extra time shall consist of two 15‑minute periods,
with an interval of five minutes at the end of normal playing time, but not
between the two periods of extra time. The players shall remain on the pitch
during both of these intervals.
14.2 If the score is still level at the end of extra time, penalties (penalty shoot-out)
shall be taken to determine the winner, in accordance with the procedure
specified in the Laws of the Game.
14.3 Before the start of a penalty shoot‑out to determine the outcome of a match:
a) unless there are other considerations (e.g. ground conditions, safety, etc.),
the referee tosses a coin to decide the goal at which the kicks will be taken,
which may only be changed for safety reasons or if the goal or playing surface
becomes unusable; and
b) the referee tosses a coin again, and the team that wins the toss decides
whether to take the first or second kick

Article 10: YELLOW AND RED CARDS
10.1 The referee has the authority to take disciplinary action from entering the
field of play for the pre‑match inspection until leaving the field of play after
the match ends (including penalties (penalty shoot‑out)). If, before entering
the field of play at the start of the match, a player or team official commits
a sending‑off offence, the referee has the authority to prevent the player or
team official from taking part in the match (see Laws of the Game, Law 12.3,
or any relevant amendment); the referee will report any other misconduct.
10.2 Single yellow cards and pending suspensions as a consequence of cautions
in different matches in the preliminary competition are not carried over to
the final competition. Pending match suspensions imposed as a result of a
red card in matches in the preliminary competition are carried over to the
final competition.
10.3 Single yellow cards in the final competition will be cancelled after the
quarter‑finals.
10.4 If a player or team official receives two cautions during two different matches,
they will automatically be suspended from their team’s subsequent match.
10.5 If a player or team official is sent off as a result of a direct or indirect red card
(second caution), they will automatically be suspended from their team’s
subsequent match. In addition, further sanctions may be imposed.
10.6 Any suspension that cannot be served during the FIFA World Cup 26 will be
carried over to the representative team’s next official match in accordance
with the relevant provisions of the FIFA Disciplinary Code.
10.7 Further details on rules and on the management of suspensions and expulsions
will be confirmed via circular letter.

Article 32: START LIST
32.1 The electronic start list system will be available and accessible eight hours
prior to the kick‑off of the respective match with the full names and shirt
numbers of the maximum of 26 players listed on the final release list, together
with the full names of the officials eligible to be seated on the team bench.
A maximum of 26 players (including a minimum of two goalkeepers) may be
chosen for the start list. Changes can be made at the team’s discretion up to
90 minutes before kick‑off. The traditional paper start list will also be available
prior to each match.
32.2 The start list should be duly completed by selecting the 11 players who will start
the match and the maximum of 15 substitutes, indicating the captain, selecting
the officials to be seated on the team bench (maximum of 11) and submitted
by the authorised team official and/or signed if applicable. Both teams shall
submit their completed start list at least 90 minutes before kick‑off. If the start
list is not submitted on time for any reason the matter will be reported to the
FIFA Disciplinary Committee. Both teams’ start lists will only be published
once both teams have submitted them, fully completed.
32.3 At the Match Coordination Meeting (before each match), the teams will receive
a start list with the full names and shirt numbers of up to 26 players together
with the full names of the team officials eligible to be seated on the bench.
32.4 The numbers on the players’ shirts must correspond to the numbers indicated
on the start list. Each team is responsible for ensuring that the start list is
completed properly and that only the 11 selected players start the match.
32.5 If, after the submission of the start list, any of the 11 players are not able to
begin the match due to injury or illness, they may be replaced by any of the
eligible substitutes as long as the FIFA Match Director and the referee are
officially informed thereof prior to kick‑off. Within 24 hours, the team concerned
shall also provide FIFA with a medical report issued by a team medical doctor
responsible (in one of the three official FIFA languages).
32.6 Further to the above, any injured or ill player who is removed from the start
list will no longer be eligible to take part in the match and thus cannot be
selected as a substitute player at any time during the match. Such a change
to the start list will not reduce the number of official substitutions that may
be made by a team during the match. Although no longer eligible to play as
a substitute, the injured or ill player who was removed from the start list
before kick‑off may be seated on the team bench and would in that case also
be eligible for doping control selection.
32.7 Only the players who were identified on the official start list submitted to the
FIFA Match Director, or were confirmed as a warm‑up injury/illness replacement
player, may start the match. In the case of any discrepancies of players on the
pitch at the beginning of the match, the matter will be submitted to the FIFA
Disciplinary Committee for a decision.
Article 33: TECHNICAL AND WARM‑UP AREAS
33.1 The technical area is the area which the coach, other team officials and
substitutes are allowed to occupy during the match. It includes the dugout
(if applicable), the team bench and a marked zone adjacent to the pitch.
33.2 No more than 26 people (up to 15 substitute players and up to 11 team officials
– one of these officials shall be a team medical doctor) shall be allowed to sit
on the team bench. A suspended player or team official will not be allowed to
sit on the team bench or be in the technical area during the match.
33.3 Up to 20 additional technical overflow seats (including one seat for the team
liaison officer and one seat for the team security liaison officer) in the stands
shall be allocated for accredited officials providing technical support to the team
during the match (kit manager, assistant physiotherapist, etc.). Staff occupying
such seats shall have access to the dressing rooms with a valid accreditation.
33.4 During the match, substitutes are allowed to leave the technical area to warm
up. At the Match Coordination Meeting, the FIFA Match Director shall explain
exactly where they may warm up.
33.5 A maximum of five players (including the goalkeeper) and one official per
team shall warm up at the same time next to their own team bench. If there
is not sufficient space next to their own team bench, both teams shall warm
up behind the advertising boards to the rear of the goal. If there is insufficient
space behind the goals, both teams shall warm up in the designated area behind
assistant referee no. 1. In this case, three players (including the goalkeeper)
and one official per team may warm up at the same time. In all cases, the
warm‑up may not involve the use of any balls.
33.6 Smoking, vaping and the use of any tobacco‑related products are only allowed
in the designated areas (if made available) and are not allowed in the technical
area, in the vicinity of the field of play or within the competition areas, such as
the dressing rooms.
Match organisation
VIII.
52 53
33.7 Small, handheld electronic equipment (e.g. microphones, headphones,
earpieces, mobile phones/smartphones, smartwatches, tablets, laptops,
etc.) are permitted in the technical area only if used for coaching/tactics or
player welfare in accordance with the Laws of the Game and the FIFA Media
and Marketing Regulations.
33.8 Additional special equipment items (e.g. antennae) for the use of wearable
technology at final competition matches may only be positioned in a dedicated
area of a final competition stadium defined by FIFA, but not in the technical
area of such stadium.
Article 34: MATCH PROTOCOL
34.1 The countdown to kick‑off provided to both teams in advance of the match shall
be strictly complied with by both teams. Each team is responsible for arriving
at the stadium at the latest 90 minutes before the kick‑off of the respective
match. The FIFA flag and the flag of the host country and both competing
Participating Member Associations shall be displayed in the stadium at every
match in accordance with FIFA’s Flag Protocol, unless FIFA states otherwise.
34.2 Unless FIFA states otherwise, the national anthems of the two teams will be
played before each match. The Participating Member Associations shall confirm
their national anthem to FIFA (maximum duration of 90 seconds) by the date
stipulated in the relevant circular.
34.3 The display of political, religious or personal messages or slogans of any
nature in any language or form by players and officials is prohibited at any
time before the match, during the national anthems, during the match and
after the conclusion of the match. The similar display of commercial messages
and slogans of any nature in any language or form by players and officials is
not allowed for the duration of their time at any official activity organised by
FIFA (including official matches and training sessions, as well as during official
press conferences and mixed‑zone activities).